# Attributes

**Attributes** is a one-object-library, created as an experiment to isolate JavaScript object attributes.

Features:

  * Undeclared attributes are not allowed to be set
  * Validation
  * `onchange` callbacks
  * Bypassing the `set` and `get` methods is not possible
  * Inclusion on host objects

## Usage

Create an `Attributes` instance:

    var conf = new Attributes();

Declare acceptable attributes with the chainable `add` method:

    conf.add('name').add('surname');

You can set validations and onchange callbacks on attributes (check `Attributes.validations` for allowed methods. Add more methods as needed):

    conf.add('age', [ ['numeric'], ['min', 18] ]);

The callback function is called with three arguments: the name of the attribute, the new value and the old value. Context of invocation is not modified. Value is not changed if the callback returns `false`.

    conf.add('name', null, function(name, newValue, oldValue) {
      console.log(name, 'changed from', oldValue, 'to', newValue);
    });

Setting and getting attributes:

    // returns true if the attribute value
    // is set, otherwise returns false
    conf.set('name', 'Choan');
    
    // returns the value of the attribute
    // or undefined if not set
    conf.get('surname');

You can merge objects-as-hashes on the collection of values:

    conf.merge({
      name: 'Choan',
      surname : 'Galvez',
      age: 32
    });

Use the `each` method to iterate. The callback is invoked with <var>value</var> and <var>key</var> as arguments. Context is not modified.

    conf.each(function(v, k) {
      console.log(k, 'is', v);
    });


## Including in other objects

Use the `Attributes.on` to merge an `Attributes` instance on host objects. Methods are renamed in the following form:

  * `add`, `set`, `get` and `each` are `addAttribute`, `setAttribute`, etc.
  * `merge` is `mergeAttributes`

An example:

    var Client = function() {
      Attributes.on(this);
      this
        .addAttribute('name')
        .addAttribute('surname')
        .addAttribute('age', [ ['numeric'], ['min', 18] ]);
    };
  
    var client = new Client();
    client.setAttribute('name', 'Choan');
    client.setAttribute('surname', 'Gálvez');
    client.setAttribute('age', 32);
    client.eachAttribute(function(value, key) {
      console.log(key, 'is', value);
    });

Check the source and the tests for more info.

## License

**Attributes** has been created by <a href="http://choangalvez.nom.es/" hreflang="es">Choan Galvez</a> and is freely distributable under the terms of a MIT-style license. The source code resides in a <a href="http://github.com/choan/js_attributes/">Git repository at github</a>.